public/content/blog/archetypes-intro.md, before:

---
title: "🎭 The 35 Archetypes: An Introduction"
date: "2025-09-12"
excerpt: "An introduction to the 35 distinct archetypes in Javanese wisdom, born from the combination of the 7 Dina and 5 Pasaran. This article explores how this nuanced system offers a rich and personal understanding of personality and purpose."
image: "/content/blog/images/wisdom-archetypes.jpg"
categories: ["Core Concepts", "Archetype"]
---

The combination of the 7 _Dina_ and 5 _Pasaran_ creates a complete cycle of 35 unique days. In Javanese wisdom, each of these 35 combinations is a distinct **archetype** with its own rich story, personality, and energetic signature.

This is what makes Weton so personal and nuanced. Instead of fitting into one of 12 broad categories, you belong to one of 35 much more specific archetypes. This system paints a rich tapestry of human character, where every personality has a unique place and purpose.

Here are just a few examples to give you a feel for the diversity:

- **_Senin Pon_** (Monday Pon) - The Resilient Softie: This archetype often projects an aura of strength and success, but underneath is a highly sensitive and responsible soul.
- **_Jumat Kliwon_** (Friday Kliwon) - The Effortless Influencer: This archetype is a patient, generous, and charismatic leader who seems to attract friends and influence people without even trying.
- **_Rabu Wage_** (Wednesday Wage) - The Frugal Friend: This archetype is a kind, friendly, and reliable soul who also happens to have a spreadsheet for everything and a deep appreciation for value.

Each of the 35 archetypes has its own detailed story, its green flags, and its potential challenges. By discovering your own in the app, you can begin to understand the unique role you are here to play in the world.

Commit message:

fix(blog): fixing blog meta title and meta descriptions

public/content/blog/archetypes-intro.md, after:

---
title: "🎭 The 35 Archetypes: An Introduction"
date: "2025-09-12"
excerpt: "An introduction to the 35 distinct archetypes in Javanese wisdom, born from the combination of the 7 Dina and 5 Pasaran. This article explores how this nuanced system offers a rich and personal understanding of personality and purpose."
image: "/content/blog/images/wisdom-archetypes.jpg"
categories: ["Core Concepts", "Archetype"]
meta_title: "The 35 Archetypes: An Introduction"
meta_description: "An intro to the 35 archetypes in Javanese wisdom, from the 7 Dina and 5 Pasaran. Explore how this system offers a rich understanding of personality."
---

The combination of the 7 _Dina_ and 5 _Pasaran_ creates a complete cycle of 35 unique days. In Javanese wisdom, each of these 35 combinations is a distinct **archetype** with its own rich story, personality, and energetic signature.

This is what makes Weton so personal and nuanced. Instead of fitting into one of 12 broad categories, you belong to one of 35 much more specific archetypes. This system paints a rich tapestry of human character, where every personality has a unique place and purpose.

Here are just a few examples to give you a feel for the diversity:

- **_Senin Pon_** (Monday Pon) - The Resilient Softie: This archetype often projects an aura of strength and success, but underneath is a highly sensitive and responsible soul.
- **_Jumat Kliwon_** (Friday Kliwon) - The Effortless Influencer: This archetype is a patient, generous, and charismatic leader who seems to attract friends and influence people without even trying.
- **_Rabu Wage_** (Wednesday Wage) - The Frugal Friend: This archetype is a kind, friendly, and reliable soul who also happens to have a spreadsheet for everything and a deep appreciation for value.

Each of the 35 archetypes has its own detailed story, its green flags, and its potential challenges. By discovering your own in the app, you can begin to understand the unique role you are here to play in the world.
