public/content/blog/power-of-neptu.md, before:

---
title: "✨ The Power of Neptu: Your Life Force"
date: "2025-09-13"
excerpt: "Delve into the concept of Neptu, the 'Life Force Value' in Javanese wisdom. This article explains how to calculate your total Neptu from your birth day (Dina) and market day (Pasaran) to reveal your innate energy."
image: "/content/blog/images/wisdom-neptu.jpg"
categories: ["Core Concepts"]
---

In Javanese wisdom, every day has a "spiritual weight" or numerical value called a **Neptu**. Think of this as your "Life Force Value", a number that reveals the intensity and nature of your innate energy.

Calculating your total _Neptu_ is simple. We add the value of your birth day (_Dina_) to the value of your birth market day (_Pasaran_).

**Total Neptu = Neptu Dina + Neptu Pasaran**

<br>
Here are the values for each day of the week:

| Dina (Day) | Neptu |
| :--------- | :---- |
| Sunday     | 5     |
| Monday     | 4     |
| Tuesday    | 3     |
| Wednesday  | 7     |
| Thursday   | 8     |
| Friday     | 6     |
| Saturday   | 9     |

<br>
Here are the values for each market day of the week:

| Pasaran (Market Day) | Neptu |
| :------------------- | :---- |
| Legi                 | 5     |
| Pahing               | 9     |
| Pon                  | 7     |
| Wage                 | 4     |
| Kliwon               | 8     |

For example, if you were born on **Thursday Pahing**:

- Your Neptu Dina is 8.
- Your Neptu Pasaran is 9.
- Your Total Neptu is 8 + 9 = **17**.

This total _Neptu_ is incredibly important. It's used in countless other calculations to determine your character traits, your risk tolerance, your compatibility with others, and the overarching themes of your life.

It's important to remember that no _Neptu_ is "better" or "worse" than another. A high number isn't luckier than a low one. They simply represent different kinds of energy, each with its own unique strengths and lessons.

Commit message:

fix(blog): fixing blog meta title and meta descriptions

public/content/blog/power-of-neptu.md, after:

---
title: "✨ The Power of Neptu: Your Life Force"
date: "2025-09-13"
excerpt: "Delve into the concept of Neptu, the 'Life Force Value' in Javanese wisdom. This article explains how to calculate your total Neptu from your birth day (Dina) and market day (Pasaran) to reveal your innate energy."
image: "/content/blog/images/wisdom-neptu.jpg"
categories: ["Core Concepts"]
meta_title: "The Power of Neptu: Your Life Force"
meta_description: "Delve into Neptu, the 'Life Force Value' in Javanese wisdom. Learn to calculate your total Neptu from your birth day (Dina) and market day (Pasaran)."
---

In Javanese wisdom, every day has a "spiritual weight" or numerical value called a **Neptu**. Think of this as your "Life Force Value", a number that reveals the intensity and nature of your innate energy.

Calculating your total _Neptu_ is simple. We add the value of your birth day (_Dina_) to the value of your birth market day (_Pasaran_).

**Total Neptu = Neptu Dina + Neptu Pasaran**

<br>
Here are the values for each day of the week:

| Dina (Day) | Neptu |
| :--------- | :---- |
| Sunday     | 5     |
| Monday     | 4     |
| Tuesday    | 3     |
| Wednesday  | 7     |
| Thursday   | 8     |
| Friday     | 6     |
| Saturday   | 9     |

<br>
Here are the values for each market day of the week:

| Pasaran (Market Day) | Neptu |
| :------------------- | :---- |
| Legi                 | 5     |
| Pahing               | 9     |
| Pon                  | 7     |
| Wage                 | 4     |
| Kliwon               | 8     |

For example, if you were born on **Thursday Pahing**:

- Your Neptu Dina is 8.
- Your Neptu Pasaran is 9.
- Your Total Neptu is 8 + 9 = **17**.

This total _Neptu_ is incredibly important. It's used in countless other calculations to determine your character traits, your risk tolerance, your compatibility with others, and the overarching themes of your life.

It's important to remember that no _Neptu_ is "better" or "worse" than another. A high number isn't luckier than a low one. They simply represent different kinds of energy, each with its own unique strengths and lessons.
