public/content/blog/what-is-weton.md, before:

---
title: "🌿 What is Weton? Your Soul's Blueprint"
date: "2025-09-10"
excerpt: "Discover Weton, the Javanese system of self-discovery. Learn how the combination of a 7-day and 5-day calendar creates 35 unique archetypes, offering a personalized blueprint for your soul's energetic signature."
image: "/content/blog/images/wisdom-weton.jpg"
categories: ["Core Concepts", "Weton"]
---

If you’ve ever felt that your standard zodiac sign only tells part of your story, you’re on the right track. Weton is a system of self-discovery from the island of Java, Indonesia, that offers a much deeper, more personalized perspective. It’s a way of understanding your energetic DNA.

The system begins with a simple but profound idea: the energy of the day you were born creates a unique blueprint for your soul. This isn't just about the month you were born in; it’s about the specific vibration of the exact day.

Unlike Western astrology which uses a 12-sign system based on the sun's yearly cycle, Javanese wisdom combines two different calendars that run at the same time:

- The familiar seven-day week (**Dina** or _Saptawara_)
- A mystical, five-day Javanese market cycle (**Pasaran** or _Pancawara_)

This combination creates a 35-day cycle, meaning there are **35 unique Weton archetypes**, each with its own specific personality, strengths, communication style, and life path.

Your Weton is not a vague prediction; it is your energetic signature. It’s the starting point for understanding your natural tendencies, your ideal career, how you connect with others, and how you can live a life that is in true alignment with your deepest self.

Commit message:

fix(blog): fixing blog meta title and meta descriptions

public/content/blog/what-is-weton.md, after:

---
title: "🌿 What is Weton? Your Soul's Blueprint"
date: "2025-09-10"
excerpt: "Discover Weton, the Javanese system of self-discovery. Learn how the combination of a 7-day and 5-day calendar creates 35 unique archetypes, offering a personalized blueprint for your soul's energetic signature."
image: "/content/blog/images/wisdom-weton.jpg"
categories: ["Core Concepts", "Weton"]
meta_title: "What is Weton? Your Soul's Blueprint"
meta_description: "Discover Weton, the Javanese system of self-discovery. Learn how it combines two calendars to create 35 unique archetypes for your soul's blueprint."
---

If you’ve ever felt that your standard zodiac sign only tells part of your story, you’re on the right track. Weton is a system of self-discovery from the island of Java, Indonesia, that offers a much deeper, more personalized perspective. It’s a way of understanding your energetic DNA.

The system begins with a simple but profound idea: the energy of the day you were born creates a unique blueprint for your soul. This isn't just about the month you were born in; it’s about the specific vibration of the exact day.

Unlike Western astrology which uses a 12-sign system based on the sun's yearly cycle, Javanese wisdom combines two different calendars that run at the same time:

- The familiar seven-day week (**Dina** or _Saptawara_)
- A mystical, five-day Javanese market cycle (**Pasaran** or _Pancawara_)

This combination creates a 35-day cycle, meaning there are **35 unique Weton archetypes**, each with its own specific personality, strengths, communication style, and life path.

Your Weton is not a vague prediction; it is your energetic signature. It’s the starting point for understanding your natural tendencies, your ideal career, how you connect with others, and how you can live a life that is in true alignment with your deepest self.
